1.) Has 100 models for trading stocks in the USA. Why would it be helpful to know the correlation between the PNLs for the models?
If one model has a good day, correlated models will also have a good day. But its good to use not strongly correlated models because what if one has a bad day?
2.) Why is it important a simulation runs as quickly as possible?
Iteration for optimization of models.
3.) Adjusted prices include splits&dividends.
Without, throws calculations into a loop. AP keep data making sense.
4.) Optimizing parameters
Takes longer to evaluate as opposed to mathematicians and terrain is different. Important to look for hills, not peaks/spikes.
5.) What is look ahead bias and why can it cause disaster?
Looking at information that if you were doing it live, you wouldn't have. Can make results look vastly better. Sharpe ratio > 4.0, probably look ahead bias.
6.) Why is it a mistake to express stock prices in pennies as an integer?
Things trade in fractions of a penny. Calculations can also result in fractional pennies.
7.) Why are Rate of Returns rather than adjusted prices more often used when comparing the volatility of two stocks?
RoR = (current price - previous price) / previous price
If one stock is at 150, the other 15 but have the same volitility, AP will give the 150 apparent x10 volitility over the 15. RoR is more akin to percentages.
8.) Why is C++ very popular for simulation frameworks?
Speed.
9.) Why would you filter out stocks whose price is below a certain value?

SIMULATIONS
1
Configuration file driven; ~350 params

2
Supplies data to models

3
Support computed fields

4
Support 3rd party data

5
Support simulation on intraday & daily level

6
Model computer signals; plugin virtual functions

7
Specify exit condition

8
Entry constraints; announcement date

9
Portfolio constraints; A(verage)D(aily)V(olume) constraint; maximum capital

10
Hedging

11
Generate Reports; Daily summary; Montly summary; Transaction summary; Industry report

12
Allow optimization

13
Production support; Back office


ASPECTS OF A SIMULATION FRAMEWORK
1
Models are derived from the simulation framework

2
Virtual functions; get model ConfigData; display model ConfigData

3
Data upon request; daily price data; minute bar data; time specific data; earning data & earning estimates; restriction data; industry codes (GICS); third party

4
Predefined fields

5
Universes of stocks

6
Composite models